[music]
(cheering)
MATT: Why do I always get the podium?
(laughter)
MATT: I'm separate from you guys enough for the
actual game, so I now have to do it onstage as
well. It's great.
LAURA: You're so good at it!
ORGANIZER: Mr. Mercer? You can move it!
MATT: I can move it.
LAURA: Sit down!
MATT: Can I move this one?
MARISHA: Should we all move down?
MATT: I want to be part of--
TALIESIN: There actually is another microphone.
LAURA: Make sure you stay really far away from us,
okay?
MATT: I'm going to go to the other microphone. I
feel so formal and separate.
TRAVIS: "Please be aware that many members of your
audience may be 18 years of age or under."
LAURA: Is that true?
(shouting)
TALIESIN: Put your hand down, young man!
(laughter)
TRAVIS: That's with a beard!
MATT: Thank you all for attending the aluminum
siding sales convention of 2016 here in Vegas. I'm
going to move here.
(cheering)
MARISHA: Welcome to the table.
MATT: It feels so different from this side. Well,
hey guys! Thank you so much for coming to our
Friday afternoon WonderCon Critical Role panel.
(cheering)
MATT: I think we're all legitimately excited and
surprised that on a Friday afternoon we've had
people show up. This is awesome. Thank you all so
much. Let's go ahead and start with some
introductions.
LAURA: I see some really wonderful shirts in the
audience.
MARISHA: Grog's shirt's over there.
TALIESIN: I told you they've sold one.
TRAVIS: Go buy all the shirts!
MATT: Here, let's go into introductions around the
table for the folks in the audience that are
really confused as to why they're here and don't
know what's going on. Travis!
TRAVIS: Oh! What?
MATT: Who are you? What do you do?
TRAVIS: (as Grog) Who is that talking? Hmm. I'm
Travis Willingham. I play Grog on Critical Role.
I'm a goliath barbarian. I like ale and killing
things.
MATT: (creepily) Yes, kill all the things.
(normal) Yeah, if you want to? What have you
voiced recently?
TRAVIS: Oh god, I voice stuff? I'm Thor in
Avengers Assemble, Fred 104 in Halo 5: Guardians,
and I'm King Roland in Princess Sofia the First.
LAURA: With the adorable Trinket. I don't know.
Poke-Trinket. I choose you Trinket-chu! I'm a
voice actress as well, and I have recently done
Halo 5 as Olympia Vale. Uncharted 4 is coming out
soon. I play Nadine Ross. Gears of War 4 is coming
out soon, I play Kait in that, which I'm pretty
excited about.
MARISHA: Everything with four in it.
LAURA: All the fours! Saint's Row 4, President of
the United States, Street Fighter IV, Chun Li.
TALIESIN: Yeah. My name is Taliesin Jaffe, and I
play Percival Fredrickstein Von Musel Klossowski
de Rolo III, the token human, gunslinger, and mad
scientist of the group. You can most recently hear
me, "I can be your robot buddy" in Fallout 4. I've
also done Street Fighter 4 and other things. I
don't know. I'm tired. I've been here all day.
It's been a long day.
MARISHA: Hello! I am Marisha Ray, AKA Keyleth the
half-elven druid who everyone either loves or
hates or you love to hate. You can hear me as
Margaret in the Persona franchise and Metal Gear
Solid: The Phantom Pain-- also a four-- no, that's
a five.
LAURA: Lame!
TALIESIN: You have a web series now too.
MARISHA: Signal Boost is out right now on the Geek
& Sundry network. I'm hosting, and we have a new
host coming up soon. I love it. It's become my
baby. It's nice. It's fun. It's irreverent. It's
weird. If you don't get it, you won't get it.
There's been a lot of work gone into that series,
okay? A lot of sleepless nights.
MATT: It screams at 4 AM, does the whole thing.
MARISHA: Not breastfeeding in public so don't ask,
it's fine.
MATT: On that note-- Hi everyone again! I'm
Matthew Mercer. I'm the guy that doesn't sleep any
more. Dungeon Master for Critical Role. As far as
voice over goes, Leon Kennedy, Resident Evil.
MacCready in Fallout 4, now with this gentleman
here. Wolf and Kindred and Gangplank in League of
Legends. Bunch of other stuff right now-- Robin in
Arkham Nights. Off the top of my head, I'm really
bad at this. You understand! Ryoma, Sugar Ray,
Azama in Fire Emblem Fates which just came out
recently. But anyways, this panel is about
Critical Role, where a bunch of us nerdy ass voice
actors roll dice and play D&D. If you haven't
gotten sick of me saying that phrase by now, you
will in time, I assure you.
TRAVIS: Much love to the people on the far left
and the far right side of the room, because every
time I look over there, I feel like we're doing
something wrong because they're all like-- There's
really no other way to sit. Love you, right side
of the room, love you.
MATT: You guys are awesome!
TRAVIS: Love you too, less populated left side of
the room.
MARISHA: That was so Bon Jovi of you, "Yeah right
side of the stage!"
TRAVIS: Yeah right side! Need a beach ball.
LAURA: Aw man, we need to bring a beach ball to
these things.
TALIESIN: Next time.
TRAVIS: Just saying, I got all sorts of great
ideas.
MATT: Beach ball's nothing, man. I want to Wayne
Coyne this from the Flaming Lips and get inside a
giant ball and roll out through the audience, like
the efreet did last time.
TALIESIN: Actually, a fan-- I'm sure they're in
the crowd-- gave me a great idea for a free
giveaway that we should carry around with us at
cons from now on, which is a free inspiration
dice. You could go to your DM and say "I have a
free inspiration dice."
(cheering)
MATT: We're going to have to bulk order some d10s
then.
TALIESIN: Right after I met you. Hi, April! It was
a room full of people I vaguely recognize from today.
TRAVIS: Are we going to do a Q&A?
MATT: Yeah, let's Q&A this. Taliesin, lead us in.
TALIESIN: Ah!
MARISHA: There are mic runners.
MATT: We have two mics over here at the front of
the stage. If you have a question-- Do you want
them to line up, or are you going to go to them?
All right, if you have a question, go ahead and
line up in the two alleys before the two
individuals holding up microphones right now.
We'll take questions back and forth and try to get
to as many as we can.
[inaudible]
MATT: All right, who wishes to wield the first
question?
[inaudible]
LAURA: Roll a d20.
MARISHA: What are we talking about?
TRAVIS: All right, pick a number between--
MARISHA: Oh that's right we have a ring. I have my
ring on me.
MATT: Oh, we're having a roll off here! I'm so
excited.
[inaudible]
AUDIENCE MEMBER: With inspiration though?
MATT: Pick a number!
[inaudible]
MATT: After the panel we will be finding a way to
roll dice, guys. Which, to be fair, is the most
D&D thing we could do for this panel.
TRAVIS: 14!
MATT: 14, okay so we're starting this side, but
we'll come back to you. All right, sir! You there
with the wondrous man-bun.
ORGANIZER: Excuse me. If the people on this side--
[inaudible]
MATT: All right, rearranging. That's a good idea.
One line that way so we don't block anyone's view
of the panel.
MARISHA: Line physics.
MATT: Big ups to our event organizers over there.
Thank you guys, the volunteers! All right, enough
dilly-dally, question!
AUDIENCE MEMBER: For a year, you guys have been
sitting in the same position. I was wondering, are
you guys tired of sitting in the exact same
position and you want to move? Did you move at home?
LAURA: I never want to move, ever. When we would
play at home, I would always sit in the same spot
at home. It feels weird to switch.
MARISHA: Laura hates change.
LAURA: I don't like change. I'm a little OCD about
it.
TALIESIN: Everybody's fine where they're sitting,
except for Marisha, who insisted that she no
longer sit next to Sam, because of reasons I'm not
allowed to discuss. Although, now I understand,
because I have to sit next to Sam.
MARISHA: It's fine, I'll take this burden.
TALIESIN: He smells of children.
LAURA: Let's be honest. The reason they moved is
so they could stare into each other's eyes. Liam
and Marisha wanted to stare at each other without
anybody in between them.
AUDIENCE: Aw!
TRAVIS and LAURA: (retching)
MARISHA: It was nice mixing it up because we got
different dynamics when we sat next to other
people. I just want to say, I think Team Right
Side of the Table is more progressive, and we like
switching it up every once in a while. That's all
I'm saying.
TRAVIS: That's like saying Team Left Side doesn't
understand what that word means.
(cheering)
MARISHA: Does that answer your question?
AUDIENCE MEMBER: I guess.
MARISHA: Good. That side!
MATT: Hello!
AUDIENCE MEMBER: Hey, how are you doing? I
recently over the past couple months started
watching, and it's been really awesome and
rekindled all of my interest in D&D. The thing
that I really wanted to say is: it's really
awesome, the charities that you guys support, and
being an aspiring teacher and 826LA-- It's really
awesome to see all the love for that you guys
show, and that you guys show by helping out with
that, so I wanted to say thank you for all that.
(cheering)
MATT: I think it's safe to say that each one of us
at some point in our life has had one person that,
out of the goodness of their heart, stepped
forward and helped us with something, and changed
the course of our life, and I think so many
groups, so many charities, so many-- I want to say
conclaves, but that has a whole different context
in this place-- groups of individuals strive to
provide that to larger groups, and it's wonderful
to see that those are out there, and you want to
try to bring that to attention, but the applause
goes to all of you guys, the community that have
adopted all of these wonderful charities and
lifted them up and given what you could, even many
of you who couldn't, and seeing that type of
feedback in the community has been incredible,
humbling, and more than once has brought a tear to
our eye. That's why I like to bring tears to
yours. It's vengeance.
AUDIENCE MEMBER: --the panel. How do you-- Sorry!
TALIESIN: It's been a while.
AUDIENCE MEMBER: I want to learn how to DM, but
how do you come up with all your NPCs, especially
on the spot? How do you make them interesting, and
how do you make them not so bland?
MATT: It helps to be crazy. Especially for the
ones that come off the top of your head, a trick
that I recommend is having a printout somewhere in
your notes of a series of names, male and female.
It can be as mundane as you want them to be. They
can be as fantasy-driven as you want them to be.
There's a lot of weird websites out there that
have fantasy name lists and--
MARISHA: Purvon.
TALIESIN: Purvon. We were all sitting here
going--
MATT: It's a real name, you guys! Oh man, I can't
wait until Purvon shows up and TPKs the whole
party. Sweet, sweet vengeance.
TRAVIS: Say my name!
(laughter)
TALIESIN: Casting Bad Touch at 4th level.
MATT: You can look up names from different
backgrounds, look up ancient Norse names, things
like that. Those are cool things to pull from, and
have that so when somebody goes, "That little
"boarded-up shop you talked about? I'm going
to go ahead and break into it, because I hear
"someone moving in there." You're like, "You
find... Stevran." From there, you can have notes
of various traits, too. You can make a list of
personality traits and randomly pick them as you
see it. "He seems a bit agitated by your purple
shirt." That's already a step better than nothing,
you know? Getting used to making those strong
choices very quickly-- There's no real key or
cheat sheet to it, as much as it comes with
experience, but any notes that you have at the
ready will help you be more comfortable with
making those quick decisions over time.
AUDIENCE MEMBER: Thank you. Also, I have drawings
to give you guys.
TRAVIS: Aw yeah! Come give us stuff!
AUDIENCE MEMBER: After the panel.
MATT: Okay, after the panel. Hello!
AUDIENCE MEMBER: Hello! I'd like to thank you all
for sharing your game with us, because it's
totally awesome. You can tell that you guys are
friendly, and like each other in the game, and
that's not something you see in a lot of things,
so thank you! My question is-- well, I have two
questions. One is I need Kima's stats, because
she's awesome, and really, she either gets frozen
or thrown into a pit.
MATT: She's got some bad luck, man!
AUDIENCE MEMBER: I've been looking for her stats
since she first showed up, so I need her stats.
And a question from my sister--
(muffled laughing)
LAURA: Your sister is so funny!
(laughter)
AUDIENCE MEMBER: In Trinket's voice, could you
tell us how he felt when he saw what happened to
Vax? Or, Vex, I'm sorry!
MATT: It happens to all of us, it's ok.
LAURA: (crying)
AUDIENCE MEMBER: That's pretty sad!
LAURA: No, I don't want to hear it!
MATT: (distressed bear noises)
(cheering)
TALIESIN: Bear poetry, that was bear poetry!
MATT: Now jump into my necklace! (whooshing)
LAURA: (whispering) Now you're trapped forever!
MATT: Hello!
AUDIENCE MEMBER: Hi, thank you guys so much for
coming out here--
TRAVIS: I love your shirt!
AUDIENCE MEMBER: My question was have you ever
been in a campaign you didn't like, or played as a
character that you hated, and you're like, "I want
to die." You know what I mean? Any campaign you
wish you weren't a part of?
TRAVIS: This is my only campaign.
MATT: Well, you played a few one-shots, too.
TRAVIS: Oh, that's true.
TALIESIN: As a teenager.
MARISHA: My first experience with a druid in
fourth edition D&D. I hated it. I hated druids so
much. I was like, "They're useless, sort of good
at nothing." When I did a druid for this game I
was like, "All right, I'll give you one last
shot."
MATT: It worked out okay.
MARISHA: It worked out great! Yeah. Three years
later.
MATT: One-shotting fire elementals in the battle.
MARISHA: (whooshing)
(applause)
MATT: That was ridiculous.
MARISHA: Thanks.
TRAVIS: You're totally useful now.
MATT: Marisha will remember that.
(laughter)
TRAVIS: (Grog voice) Keyleth, help me!
MARISHA: Well--
TALIESIN: Occasionally in high school, I'd play
and be like, "Oh, I chose poorly." These were some
bad character trait decisions. Then you let that
character get killed. Go out guns blazing, and you
a roll a new one and everybody's happy. Except
that character.
MATT: I remember I made a Dawn Cast in an Exalted
game for a while that was really cool on paper. I
liked the idea and the theme behind it, but then
when I realized partway into the campaign there was
going to be a lot of social combat and I had
nothing except a giant Final Fantasy-size sword,
and that's about it, I spent a lot of the game
going, "Are there hors d'oeuvres?" I regretted
that choice a little bit. Other than that, you
find something weird about the character and if
you don't like it, have them jump off a cliff.
TALIESIN: Heroically.
MATT: Thank you, good question!
AUDIENCE MEMBER: I have drawings, too!
MATT: You guys are ridiculous!
AUDIENCE MEMBER: After the panel, outside in the
hall.
MATT: We'll have a little drop point. Thank you!
MARISHA: Or you can hand them to Claudia. Everyone
say "Hi, Claudia."
AUDIENCE MEMBER: Out in the exit, after the
panel.
MATT: You, sir, with the fantastic t-shirt.
AUDIENCE MEMBER: Thank you. I have a question for
the players and DM. Players, how often do you
think about your character and the mindset of your
character? How involved do you get? For the DM,
how do you control this? There's so many people,
and you're dealing with Scanlan.
(laughter)
MARISHA: I love that your question was basically,
"They're insane; how do you manage it?"
MATT: You understand me.
AUDIENCE MEMBER: I'm a new DM, and you've inspired
me. Oh my god, I can't even.
MATT: I'll answer my question real fast because
it's a fast answer: a lot of cocaine. No. You keep
the rules there as a basis. It's a lot of paying
attention. It's a balance between having to be
bogged down in the rules, and having to let the
story unfold and let the players have fun, so you
keep a balance there. How to keep them together? I
have a lot of years of experience at this, and a
lot of patience. Thank you.
TALIESIN: Watching him pack up all the maps we
didn't use in a huff at the end of the night is
always fun.
MARISHA: His trunk is like a map graveyard.
MATT: Yeah, actually.
LAURA: Do you ever reuse maps that we didn't get
to? And you go, "Oh, I can make this a later thing."
MATT: I have them just in case, but that doesn't
really happen because you guys don't really
venture back to the same places, which is great.
It means you're traveling the world. It's wonderful.
MARISHA: Just like my passive-aggressive aunt.
LAURA: You want to answer the player question?
TALIESIN: Yeah. Only the night after. After the
game I go home and I sit in bed and have that-- I
should probably drink a couple of shots of whiskey
so that I fall asleep. Don't think about every
stupid thing I've done over the past four hours
that I've then broadcast to several thousand
people, and oh god, what have I done? What am I
doing? I really need to sleep. Oh god. I have
auditions to do. It's two o'clock in the morning.
I really-- Oh god. I have an-- Oh no. Then I fall asleep.
MARISHA: That's healthy.
LAURA: I think about it way too much.
MARISHA: Yeah. I'm with you.
LAURA: I fell asleep thinking about it. Woke up
thinking about it. Then I'll be driving and
thinking about it. Eating lunch and thinking about
it. Thinking about, I need to talk to Vax about
this. What is happening?
MARISHA: You often think about all the things.
Like Percy. Next time, next game I'm going to give
Percy a piece of my mind. Then you're like, "Hey,
Percy! I have a flower for you." That's about as
far as that goes.
LAURA: You go crazy in the night and then there's
a whole week in between, and we forget about it.
Then we get there, it's like, "I'm not mad at you
anymore."
TALIESIN: No. It's fine.
LAURA: It's okay you killed me. No big deal.
TALIESIN: Yeah. No big deal. Maybe next time it'll
take and we'll see.
AUDIENCE: (oohing)
TRAVIS: The fear was real when she almost died. I
think my face was a projection of absolute terror
because I knew that night was never going to end.
The sun was going to come up and the mascara would
be down the cheeks and she'd be ripping up art in
her room like, "It's all over. It's all over!" I'd
have a fire extinguisher pointed at her like,
"Calm down. It's just in your mind." I don't spend
much time with my character because Grog doesn't
think. It's just impulse.
LAURA: That's a lie.
TRAVIS: No. He holds grudges. That's about it.
Then he likes to kill the thing that moves.
(laughter)
LAURA: You'll come home from a game and you'll be
like, "I can't believe I didn't rage when I could
"have raged. I can't believe I didn't take
advantage of that relentless whatever."
TRAVIS: I forget my stuff. It took me two and a
half, three years to learn everything. I think
both of those fights with Kern, I was still
forgetting to add strength modifiers. It's stupid,
but it makes the game good.
MATT: To be fair, we did play Pathfinder for two
years. About the time you guys got familiar fully
with your character abilities, oh, new edition!
TRAVIS: Yeah. That's totally why I suck at the
numbers.
LAURA: That is why I suck at the spells. Because I
didn't understand that there was even a thing for
concentration because I didn't have spells in
Pathfinder.
MARISHA: Yeah, the concentration spells are a
bitch.
LAURA: They suck!
MATT: It's a balance tool.
LAURA: Yeah, yeah.
MATT: You should be glad I forget the
concentration checks. I'm trying to be better
about that.
TALIESIN: Don't get better about that.
AUDIENCE MEMBER: I have two thank yous. One to
Laura, you and Alison Haislip are the reason my
wife now plays D&D.
LAURA: Seriously. Titansgrave?
AUDIENCE MEMBER: Titansgrave panel, yes. We were
at the Titansgrave panel at Comic Con.
LAURA: Awesome.
AUDIENCE MEMBER: I'm still waiting for season
two.
LAURA: It's happening.
(cheering)
AUDIENCE: Grog, or Travis.
TRAVIS: (Grog voice) My man.
AUDIENCE MEMBER: Thank you. And mostly the rest of
the panel, thank you for supporting the military.
I'm an active duty Marine.
(cheering)
AUDIENCE MEMBER: It saved the mentality of some of
my Marines while in the country, so thank you. For
Matt. I've recently been DMing my wife's campaign.
I'm actually building from scratch a new campaign.
How far out did you build your story when you
first started? Because I've got the first
iteration, but from there I'm stuck because I'm
not sure how far out to build it in order to
accommodate where I might want it to go as far as
where they're going to go.
MATT: It's very intimidating at first, when you
consider the possibilities of how much you can
create: what you should, what you shouldn't. It's
very daunting at first. I built just a town. A
singular town with a little swamp around the
outskirts, and that was where they started, and
that was where their story began. I let them play
in there for a session and then by the end of that
session, I had an idea of what they were looking
for, what they enjoyed out of the game, and I can
build the next town, and the spaces in between.
For me, it was letting them drive the story for
the first few sessions and expanding based on
where they seemingly wanted to go, what they
wanted to accomplish in the game. Don't feel like
you have to front-load everything. I will say, if
you want to make a strong, fun campaign, any
general themes of the world you want to do, set
that at the beginning. Like the Eberron setting
for D&D. It's a very high magic campaign that
transpired after a great war that destroyed a
bunch of these main, top cities, and everyone's
just now recovering from that encounter. That's a
cool thing to build around from there. Think of a
really strong theme that the rest of your world
could be based around, but you don't have to build
the entire countryside before you start playing.
Start very small. Where you can control and flesh
out a small area, see how the players wander in
that space, and when they start feeling like
they've accomplished everything they can
accomplish in that area, build the next one and
take it from there.
AUDIENCE MEMBER: Awesome. Thank you.
MATT: You'll be making up half of it anyway, as
you go, every time they do something you don't
expect. Good question.
AUDIENCE MEMBER: Hi. Love you guys.
MATT: Is that the Drumpf hat by the way?
AUDIENCE MEMBER: Yeah.
MATT: Hell yeah, it is. The Donald Drumpf hat.
AUDIENCE MEMBER: I feel like you guys could do a
thing for-- what is the name of the world?
MATT: Exandria.
AUDIENCE MEMBER: You could Make Exandria Great
Again.
MATT: Just a dragon with X eyes on it.
TALIESIN: That got wheels turning.
AUDIENCE MEMBER: My question is, as voice actors,
is there a popular series, a cartoon, that you're
not in but you want to be in, and why is it Rick
and Morty?
(laughter)
LAURA and TALIESIN: It is Rick and Morty.
MARISHA: It's absolutely Rick and Morty
TALIESIN: I auditioned for Rick and Morty for a
couple of things, and I was like, "This is awesome
"and I'm not going to book it, but god, I want to
read it over and over." It was a Hitler Lincoln.
Season one. Oh my god, yeah.
MARISHA: I also love Dan Harmon so much. I'm a
massive Community fan. I'll watch anything Dan
Harmon does. He's amazing.
MATT: That show is phenomenal. I'm trying to prod
Justin Roiland to make me come on and do an
appearance some time. We'll see. We'll see if he
ever has time. He's a busy man. Any other shows
you guys want to do?
TRAVIS: Sailor Moon.
(cheering)
MATT: You'd make a good Jupiter.
TALIESIN and LAURA: Adventure Time.
TALIESIN: I'm actually doing one of the shows. I
can't talk about it though, one of the shows I'm
on. I hit one of my little goals.
MATT: Rick and Morty. Good job. Good question.
AUDIENCE MEMBER: Two thank yous. Thank you for
actually teaching me the game through your show,
because I have a d20 from Loot Crate that I never
knew how to use, so now I have it.
MARISHA: This has context now.
TRAVIS: What is this thing?
AUDIENCE MEMBER: Thank you for basically giving me
a show that I binge watched for three weeks
straight. Thank you so much for that. Those
four-hour shows make the day pass really fast, but
I know that you guys have guest stars, and I think
you guys had Chris Hardwick recently.
LAURA and MARISHA: Last night.
AUDIENCE MEMBER: If there was ever a possibility,
would you ever have someone that was completely
new to D&D and have them join you guys for maybe a
mission or two?
MARISHA: Yeah, we have. Mary and Will were both
newbies.
LAURA: She freaking took to it like it was
nothing.
MATT: You did your first session. It's true. It's
funny, you'll see a lot of people who don't
understand D&D, but performer or not, I've had
people that I've played games with years ago, in
high school, it was their first time playing, and
once it clicked how it works in their head, it was
like they had been playing their whole life.
That's not the case with everybody, some people it
takes a little bit longer to get into it, but
there's some folks that all of a sudden it's like,
"Oh! Oh."
(laughter)
TRAVIS: Hook us in.
MATT: Yeah! We've had a lot of people who it was
their first time, and we also did a couple one
shots for folks who had little to no experience
from any RPGs previously, so we've done a few.
There has been some discussions about maybe doing
a community contest to have a fan at some point in
the near future. We're trying to work out the
logistics of that, we'll see if that can happen.
AUDIENCE MEMBER: I nominate Kimmy!
MATT: What's up, Kimmy?
TALIESIN: We have a lot of things we want to do.
MATT: Yeah, we're trying out something there. Once
again, I don't want it to be too much of a
guest-centric show, because it is the story of Vox
Machina, but we will still have guests coming in
every two months or so depending on availability
and if it fits in the story, and I'm sure we'll be
dragging some more newbies into the fold as we
do.
AUDIENCE MEMBER: Thank you guys!
ALL: Thank you!
MARISHA: Sun bros!
AUDIENCE MEMBER: First off, thank you, because you
guys are the only reason that I even thought I
could DM. As a new DM, there's one dude in my
party, he's a little homicidal, and I was
wondering if there are-- I see you. I was
wondering if there are any creative ways that you
would recommend me to maybe curb him from killing
all my NPCs. He got five kills.
MATT: Let's say, theoretically, a person not in
the game killed somebody. They'd be in a lot of
trouble. That can also happen in your game. Unless
they're very good at hiding the body, which they
can get away with maybe once. If they don't learn
their lesson, and they've gotten to what you say
is homicidal, which to me leads me to believe it's
happened quite a few times?
AUDIENCE MEMBER: Every new person.
MATT: Every new person?
(laughter)
TRAVIS: Where's your game? I call next!
AUDIENCE MEMBER: The worst!
MATT: I would say consider one, in the society
they're playing in, there is probably some sort of
peacekeeping or law-keeping group, whether it be
guards, or even bounty hunters that can be sent
out to hunt down the person, because it's not a
CSI episode, there are people with magical
capabilities. They can scry and find out directly
who is responsible, if the person who killed them
isn't very careful or has some way of magically
warding that information. Suddenly that player has
much more powerful NPCs hunting them down, trying
to arrest or kill that player character, which
leads to a really, really cool story arc in its
own right. If they end up not being careful going
forward or learning their lesson, they might wind
up being arrested and/or killed by the bounty
hunter, which is a great lesson to the rest of the
players. Or they could repent at the last minute
and then have to do community service, because
here's the thing. All those hardcore hackers, that
have done--
(laughter)
TRAVIS: Blaze of glory!
MATT: There's that too. But there are the people
who are big hackers, that hack into the government
and as such, as opposed to being put in prison for
years, they were offered a position. Maybe if they
can be arrested, and then have the head of the
town be like, "I'll absolve you of these murders--
that you will never do again or I will kill you--
if you go ahead and do this task for me, since you
seem so skilled at killing individuals."
TALIESIN: Yeah, and then you can hand them an
alignment-based weapon that they can wield. A
weapon that can be wielded, but if you shift
alignment suddenly that weapon turns on you.
MATT: There's a bunch of different ways you can do
that. These are some ideas to let you play with
for a while.
AUDIENCE MEMBER: Thank you!
MATT: You're welcome! Thank you.
LAURA: By the way, that's how he plays video
games. He walks around and tells me to kill
anybody I see, anything I talk to. He watches and
he goes, "Kill that person! Kill that chicken!"
TRAVIS: Everything dies. Hey, if the chicken
deserves to live, it'll get away. I'm just saying!
She won't kill a chicken, but you'll steal a
broom.
AUDIENCE: (oohing)
(laughter)
TALIESIN: I so support you and if I had been on
your side of the table I would have been like, "Go
for the candles! He's got insane stuff on this
sheet. Let's just take it!"
TRAVIS: We could have tossed him in the lava and
had everything!
TALIESIN: We should have jumped him, taken
everything, and thrown him in the lava, and been
like, "I don't know what happened to that
dragon."
LAURA: That's the thing; he handed it to me. I
mean, come on!
TRAVIS: You rolled with disadvantage for it.
LAURA: I did.
TALIESIN: You are so my hero. You don't know.
You're my hero.
MARISHA: We're really good people. We're role
models.
AUDIENCE MEMBER: Laura. Shame on you. I cannot
wait to see that come into play. Praise the sun,
we're almost there. First off, I wanted to thank
you all, just for being you. You guys are awesome,
so entertaining. You do such great work for the
community. I've been DMing for 12 or so years now,
and just in the past year I've been watching you
guys, I've learned so much. Being voice actors,
you all have an advantage. You get really into
your characters, which is something not everyone
can do. Is there ever a time that you guys-- and I
really wish Liam was here for this-- maybe find
yourselves getting too sucked into your
characters?
(laughter)
TRAVIS: Say that one more time?
AUDIENCE MEMBER: I love you.
(laughter)
MATT: I can't tell if she's thinking or if she's
coming over to beat you up.
(laughter)
TRAVIS: She like, earth elemental into the floor.
She's coming up under your nuts.
MARISHA: Natural 20.
MARISHA: Is everyone waiting for me to answer this
question?
AUDIENCE MEMBER: Anyone, really.
LAURA: No? I feel like there's a pretty good
separation of what I feel like, so even in the
scene-- Okay, when it's really sad, if Trinket's
about to die, I'm really sad, but I also am aware
that there's fun stuff going on outside of that,
so I can be crying as Vex and then he'll say
something stupid and I'll start laughing as me.
TALIESIN: We have those heavy moments, and then we
hit our-- and I use this term loosely-- ten minute
break. We know it's not ten minutes, but the
minute that we actually get a breather, no matter
what was going on it goes into, "(hysterical
laughing) Oh, that was so awesome! Oh my god!"
MARISHA: Yeah, we're all aware. We're not crazy
yet. Like Laura was saying, we've been with
these characters now for three years. Keyleth is
my imaginary best friend, in a weird way. I am
definitely emotionally invested and when we're in,
like Laura was saying earlier, when we're in these
characters' minds a lot, it's easy to get
emotionally invested as actors, but we're not
totally insane yet.
LAURA: You seem freaking crazy right now, as you
were saying it.
MARISHA: This is my velociraptor stance.
(laughter)
AUDIENCE MEMBER: A few times I think I see,
especially Liam, sitting there, with his brooding
face, hanging back, I want to--
TALIESIN: That's his face, man, that's not nice.
LAURA: I mean, Liam in general is broody, and he
always has been, but at the same time, he stays in
character I think more than the rest of us through
a lot of the game, so he'll be-- What are you
freaking doing?!
(laughter)
LAURA: It's distracting! He'll be listening to a
conversation that other people are having as Vax,
instead of necessarily as Liam some of the time. I
have leaned over to him, and whispered to him
"What is freaking wrong with you?" He leaned over
and went, "I'm not sad! Vax is sad right now!" and
then he'll start laughing. He stays in it a bit
more than we do.
MARISHA: Yeah, I think every time I cry, I get
inundated with people being like, "Oh my god,
Marisha. I couldn't tell if you were crying, or if
Keyleth was crying." I'm like--
LAURA: "Me neither."
MARISHA: Yes? Little bit of column A, little bit
of column B?
TALIESIN: I lean over very quietly. "Stop it,
you're wasting water!"
MARISHA: We're in a drought. Damn it.
(laughter)
MATT: Thank you for the question! Praise the sun.
LAURA: But the emotions that we're feeling during
the game, those are real honest emotions, because
we're so connected to--
MARISHA: Yeah, but for example, when Taliesin, or
sorry, when Percy and Grog get into a conflict--
TRAVIS: That was so great!
MARISHA: It was great! They were actually angry at
each other in real life.
TALIESIN: The minute that episode ended, we were
like, "Ugh! We got to go. I want to fight so bad!"
TRAVIS: Yeah, Grog probably loves Vox Machina
because they always run into people to fight. He
loves Pike, but that's where all of the action is,
with you guys. If it gets boring, he'd be like,
"Fuck it, I'm out." Yeah, I love it. I feel like
until he gets hit by each individual character, he
will not be happy.
TALIESIN: Yes, I can't wait. I can't wait.
MARISHA: I didn't know that, challenge accepted.
MATT: Yes. You, sir!
AUDIENCE MEMBER: Hi!
MATT: Hello.
AUDIENCE MEMBER: First off, thank you for Critical
Role, and you especially, Matt for all the GM
tips. You guys have really inspired me to try to
be a better DM for my friends at home. I haven't
gotten to an actual adventure yet. We've been
doing a bunch of the book campaigns, starters--
MATT: Those are great.
AUDIENCE MEMBER: I know a lot of your game is
homebrew, like house rules and everything, but
something has been bugging me with the
Earthbreaker Groon fight--
(laughter)
AUDIENCE MEMBER: It involves Vax, and I wish Liam
was here to talk about it. Because, I play a monk--
MATT: I already know the question you're going to
ask, and I've answered it 7,000 times on Twitter.
The reason for the change I made to that, what
you're referring to, which is the Quivering Palm technique--
AUDIENCE MEMBER: Yeah, because Vax should be dead.
TRAVIS: 7,000 times already.
MATT: For that particular ability, Groon was
teaching a lesson, and testing them, as opposed to
trying to outright destroy them. It was more about
the fear of not knowing what was going to happen,
so I scaled back the ability, because it versus a
player-- That technique is designed, in theory, to
be more player used against creatures. For an NPC
to use it against a player, it's pretty harsh. The
intent is to have someone's heart explode, that's
the idea behind the technique. For the purpose of
that particular fight with Earthbreaker Groon,
that would have been a little harsh, I think.
Especially when his focus of his aggression and
testing was against Grog. It could go either way,
but that was my decision for that fight, but don't
worry, there are plenty of other, not so--
AUDIENCE MEMBER: Seeing as it's been asked so many
times, I had it in the back of my mind like,
"Yeah, ask Matt."
MATT: Oh, it's all good. I'm glad I could clarify
for you.
AUDIENCE MEMBER: I wanted to ask one more
question. In the future will we be seeing more of
Vax and Vex's-- a resolution to their issues with
their dad?
MATT: We shall see. Syngorn currently is not on
this plane of existence. We'll see. Hey, it's all
been considered and--
LAURA: You don't want to meet him, he's a dick!
(laugher)
TALIESIN: He's actually the character I'm going to
roll when Percy dies.
(laughter and booing)
TALIESIN: Kidding! Kidding, Oh my god, you people.
MARISHA: That's messed up on multiple levels.
AUDIENCE MEMBER: Vax and Vex trying to be, in
their eyes, a better family member to their half
sibling that they barely know.
MATT: They've only met her once, and they did
actually, it was one of those "Hi, Dad. Oh, is
this who you think is our new mother?"
LAURA: "Is this your new family? Is this your new
fricking daughter?" Then she was adorable and I
felt guilty. It's not her fault, I know. She pet
Trinket, she loved him, I gave her a necklace, okay?
MATT: It's true. I wouldn't be surprised if it
came up.
TRAVIS: I appreciate your bloodlust.
MATT: Don't worry, for all you monk users out
there, there are plenty of other individuals that
are trained in the martial arts in the universe
that are a little less inclined to hold back.
TALIESIN: I'm excited to try and shoot one.
MATT: I'm really excited for you to try and shoot
one.
TALIESIN: That excites me.
MARISHA: We need a ticker of how many things you
say that are royally messed up.
TALIESIN: I thought we had a ticker for all the
terrible things I say. Wasn't aware we had stopped that.
AUDIENCE MEMBER: First I'm going to try to-- oh,
he's already recognized me. Holy shit. Yeah. I was
going to say, we haven't talked in five or six
years so I wouldn't be surprised if you didn't
recognize me, but then Diana told me that you
never forget anyone.
MATT: Not in the face, no. I'm amazed I remember
your name. I don't remember my own name half of
the time. I went to high school with this guy, by
the way!
(applause)
MATT: Good to see you, man!
AUDIENCE MEMBER: You too! I think the last time we
saw each other was at this convention center five
or six years ago. So anywho, I was going to first
try to embarrass you by saying thanks for being
one of the people running Popular Arts Club in
high school when I was a freshman, because I do
not think I would have grown to be this geek, and
into anime, video games, and D&D if not for you.
(applause)
AUDIENCE MEMBER: I hope I did half a good a job as
you helping run it in later years.
MATT: Thank you. By the way, Popular Arts Club was
our wonderful, our PC club title for anime and
video games club. Popular Arts Club, where all the
kids go and enjoy the arts that are popular in the
modern day. Come play Street Fighter.
AUDIENCE MEMBER: The awkward times when we'd try
to do stuff after school and then people were
like, "Oh, you don't want to call it PACAS."
(laughter)
AUDIENCE MEMBER: Right, sorry. My question was,
now that you're playing much more regularly, do
you worry about power level creep? Meaning the
fact that everyone's going to be gaining
experience that much faster and levelling up that
much faster, and you might reach a point where the
power levels are getting ridiculous, or do you
curb that?
MATT: It's always something to keep in mind for
it. The only person that's solely responsible for
that would be myself giving out too many items or
too much experience points, and I have a system
based on the encounters and the size of the party.
It works out pretty well. They've been evenly
levelling up, but that means I have got to make
the challenges harder and the creatures more
deadly. I tend to alter a lot of the creatures in
the Monster Manual, and customize them for my own
uses. That involves giving them not just a little
more hit points, because you don't want to make
creatures harder by making them longer to fight;
that's not as much fun. That involves increasing
the damage a lot of their techniques do, that
involves giving them new abilities that aren't in
the Monster Manual that can hit multiple guys at
once, or cause more conditional effects on them
that will mess up the battle and make it more
interesting, or setting up battlefield scenarios
that introduce more dangers outside of the
creatures and up the ante. It's always a balance
as you learn, and this is my first campaign with
5th Edition systems, so even I've had my growing
pains with it going forward, but I'm pretty
comfortable that if I start feeling that becomes a
serious issue, I'll have ways to counteract this.
MARISHA: She just died three games ago, man!
MATT: That wasn't even part of the battle.
MARISHA: That's true.
MATT: Good to see you!
AUDIENCE MEMBER: You too.
MATT: That was a nice little meeting.
AUDIENCE MEMBER: First off, to the panel, I know
you guys have had interesting experiences with
Critters who have submitted like, "Hey, they
should fight this next!" I have a particularly
sadistic moon druid in my party that I want to
punish in a similar way, but I want for his
comeuppance-- coming back to the fans, what would
you like me to punish him with?
(oohing)
MATT: What level is the druid?
AUDIENCE MEMBER: Everyone's level seven. He has a
penchant for summoning eight giant badgers at once
to fight any creature I throw at them.
MATT: How do we want to punish this druid?
AUDIENCE MEMBER: He's an ass. He makes Grog look
like a saint.
AUDIENCE MEMBER: He skinned an orc.
MATT: That's pretty cool.
MARISHA: You realize you're giving him
trans-dimensional power, right? Do you realize the
Pandora's box you could be opening right now?
MATT: Here's a fun little tool. There are a number
of creatures in the Monster Manual, or creatures
you can create, that don't really have damage
values to their attacks. Some of them just bring
players to zero, like banshees, or other such
creatures that have capabilities that no matter
how powerful you are, no matter how many allies
they have, they make the incorrect saving throw,
(thump). There's also abyssal- and devil-based
creatures that don't kill, but they capture and
enslave. So there's always that possible part of
the campaign where the player now has to spend
some time in servitude in one of the many layers
of the Nine Hells.
MARISHA: The Deliverance arc.
(laughter)
TRAVIS: Have Earthbreaker Groon and Clarota ride a
beholder in.
MATT: There is that. You know what? Yeah. Go ahead
and see if there's any denizens of the abyss that
look interesting to use.
AUDIENCE MEMBER: A chasme showed up, that could
always happen again. As someone who's aspiring to
be a voice actor, if you guys have time after the
panel I would love to pick at least one of your
brains. I'm done.
MARISHA: What would be more productive for you is
to go to iwanttobeavoiceactor.com. I'm serious.
AUDIENCE MEMBER: That's a thing?
MARISHA: Yeah, I'm serious. That's Dee Bradley
Baker's website. He's probably one of the most
prolific voice actors in this industry. He's
amazing, he's in everything that you've ever seen, ever.
MATT: Pretty much any advice we would give is
already on that site. It's heavily, heavily
detailed. Go to iwanttobeavoiceactor.com.
LAURA: He gets a bunch of other voice actors and
asks them questions, and puts them on the website
as well. Another good resource is Voice-Over Voice
Actor: What It's Like Behind the Mic, and that's
by Yuri Lowenthal and Tara Platt who are also
working all the time.
MARISHA: You saw Yuri Lowenthal on Titansgrave, so
you know him as well.
TALIESIN: That's a book I recommend to anybody.
It's really amazing.
MARISHA: That's your source list.
TRAVIS: We have five minutes left, so be
expedient.
AUDIENCE MEMBER: Hi! Totally serious, random
question: If you were a fruit, what fruit would
you be, and why?
LAURA and MARISHA: Our characters?
AUDIENCE MEMBER: Not your characters, you
personally.
TRAVIS: Pineapple!
AUDIENCE MEMBER: Any fruit, it could be a tomato.
TRAVIS: Why? Because it tastes good.
TALIESIN: I've got mine, I'm down.
LAURA: I would be a mango.
MARISHA: I would be an apple. Ruby red.
TALIESIN: I would be a lime, because then I would
make a fabulous pie and would be really good in
alcoholic beverages.
(cheering)
MATT: I would be a grapefruit because it looks
delicious, then it's surprisingly sour and not
enjoyable unless you're over the age of 70.
LAURA: I love grapefruit, Matt.
MATT: Or you're Laura.
MARISHA: Over there!
AUDIENCE MEMBER: That was actually my question.
MATT: Damn it!
AUDIENCE MEMBER: This is for Matt and also the
players. Matt, you like throwing in little
references sometimes, like Thordak being Thursday,
and Sam's character being based off of Eminem. Are
there any references that have been hidden in the
campaign or hidden in your character's'
backstories that maybe haven't been discovered
yet? Or something you put in thinking that, "Oh,
they're going to notice that!" that they've never
noticed at all?
MATT: I don't know, maybe. Now you know how that
feels. I love it. All of them, Travis more than
anybody, would come to me and be like, "What did
that mean when that happened in the game?" I'd be
like, "I don't know."
AUDIENCE MEMBER: More like outside references
where you took something from outside and snuck it
in to the game.
MATT: Right. Most of them the internet has picked
up. You guys are a pretty sharp crowd, so
everything is pretty much squeezed through.
TALIESIN: All of the people on my list are based
off of real people that I know, and I don't think
any of them know that.
(laughter)
TALIESIN: Even their names, like Anders,
Cassandra, that whole arc is all-- All of the
names of my siblings are references. Vesper
doesn't know.
TRAVIS: Did everyone know that Thordak meant
Thursday except me?
TALIESIN: Did anybody not know? Oh god, it's like
crickets out there.
LAURA: You learned something! What a great panel!
TALIESIN: We've all learned a little something
today.
MATT: I was surprised people picked up on that. I
was looking for cool dragons that had a good sound
to it. I started looking into ancient Norse,
Nidhogg style. I saw what the translation for
Thursday was, and it wasn't exactly Thordak, but
it sounded like it. So I decided to throw it in
there because I thought it would be a fun little
joke to myself, and when people picked up on it I
was like, "Oh my god! I love you guys so much for
finding that!" I can't think of anything else.
MARISHA: I was going to say that kaitiaki was a
word that I picked up on when I was in New
Zealand. It's a Maori word that means leader,
respect, guardian, and I was like, "That's
perfect!" So I appropriated it. Classic white
person.
(laughter)
LAURA: And that's how we end our panel.
ORGANIZER: I'd like to thank you for being here.
We all enjoy having you here.
(cheering)
ORGANIZER: Everyone wants to talk with you guys.
If you can, please go out that exit if you would
like to see them. Hopefully they can wait
outside.
LAURA: Oh no, we're not--
ORGANIZER: You're leaving.
LAURA: Yeah, we might-- yeah, but we can't--
ORGANIZER: Oh, I know, but if anything we need to
clear out the panel so that the next panel can
come through.
MATT: We'll come by and see if we can shake hands
really fast. A bunch of us have to leave for
another event this evening, but we're going to
come out and try to say hi to everyone.
(elevator music)